In the previous module, we focused on continuous integration,
and now we will transition to continuous deployment.
You might also hear the term continuous delivery, but as you can tell,
I have used the term delivery as the last step in the
continuous integration flow, but they seem to be somewhat
interchangeable in industry and the literature.
Semantics aside,
as long as you know what they represent and mean and you
are consistent with you and your team, that is what's important.
Here is a quote that I'm using as a definition of sorts
for the term continuous deployment.
Essentially,
it is the practice of releasing every good build to users by Jez Humble,
that is, the users, your customers have access to the software,
and hence it has been deployed.
Whereas when I use the term deliver, it means it is just ready to be deployed.
Subtle, but an important distinction.
So continuous deployment means moving build to releases to production
automatically conditional on the successful completion of all the necessary
testing and checks. Features and bug fixes go live to users as soon as
they're ready without any manual intervention. By implementing both
continuous integration and continuous deployment, you not only decrease
risk and catch bugs more early,
but also move more quickly to solid functioning
software in the hands of the users, therefore,
increasing customer value.
What's a release? I would like to define and clarify how I am using the term
release as this will help us as we move through this module.
It's the entire collection of artifacts required to run a system and
application or a deliverable, compiled code and required scripts,
files, endpoints, and databases, documentation, yep,
I know you don't like to write it,
but it should be there as well, test plans and test cases,
specifications, installation instructions,
operate and monitoring instructions.
Hey, maybe I missed something and I probably have, but you get the idea.
Everything including the kitchen sink that is needed to successfully run an
application, service, or component is included in a release.
Now you might use a different term in your organization,
which is fine, as long as you define it clearly and
the team knows exactly what it is.
Another example may be the term build,
build and release are typically interchangeable,
but I think release usually implies a special feature
set or possibly even a milestone.
Now, let's define delivery and deployment.
There is a distinction and also how I will use the
term release in the context of both.
I am defining delivery as follows. Our value stream is complete and we
have delivered our product to our downstream partner,
such as customers, users, and even a Kanban downstream partner.
Let's say our product is a release and the releases name are 4.5,
that was the culmination of our continuous integration module,
but no one is using our product yet,
and we simply have delivered it to someone. I am defining deployment as follows.
Our upstream partner for our particular release was
delivered to us is now deployed, that is,
we have installed it into production and it's being used.
So if users or customers are now accessing this release,
then it has been deployed.
So releases, as we defined on the previous page,
compile build with scripts and all the other artifacts,
including documentation, is delivered in our done column,
and then the release then can be pulled forward by our
downstream partner to be deployed.
Many times our downstream partner may be called production operations.
Now these are the definitions I'm using and hopefully it'll
help you understand the deeper concepts.
I will try and be consistent in this course,
though in the real world, you will likely hear
slightly different terms and definitions.
As long as your team understands the context of usage of these terms,
it really doesn't matter, so long as you really understand the
value stream and how the workflow moves through the entire pipeline from backlog to production, then you'll be fine.